New face mask rules came into place on Tuesday due to concerns about the Omicron Covid variant. Although there are only 14 confirmed cases of this new strain in the UK so far, this number is expected to rise in the upcoming days. Prime minister Boris Johnson announced on Saturday that rules around mask-wearing have been brought back to “buy time” for scientists to understand the new variant. These “temporary and precautionary” measures will be reviewed in three weeks. This does not mean people have to cover their noses and mouths in all public settings though – so where do you now have to wear a mask? Retail areas: Shopping centres Galleries Post offices Banks Building societies High street solicitors and accountants Auction houses and retail galleries Savings clubs and money service businesses Estate agents Personal care and beauty premises Pharmacies Vets Short-term loan providers Credit unions Shops and supermarkets Food and drink takeaways Public transport: Airplanes Trains Trams Buses Coaches Taxis Private hire vehicles Transport hubs Driving lessons and tests, including for HGV drivers Pupils in year 7 and above, plus all staff members, are being “strongly advised” to wear face masks in communal areas outside the classroom in schools, but this is not yet mandatory.  Restaurants Pubs Bars Theatres Cinemas Hospitality venues Although masks aren’t legally required in the latter settings, we know that wearing a face mask is the single biggest thing you can do to stop the spread of coronavirus, so you might want to consider masking up regardless. If you refuse to wear a mask in a mandatory setting, you risk a fine of up to £200.  Of course, some people are exempt from wearing masks, including children under the age of 11, those who cannot put on, wear or remove a covering because of physical or mental illness or impairment or disability, and those for whom it will cause severe distress. People who rely on lip reading or facial expressions to communicate are also exempt, as well as police officers and other emergency workers.