Stars from the entertainment world have paid tribute to American composer and songwriter Stephen Sondheim, following his death at the age of 91. The creator of the musical Sweeney Todd died on Friday morning at his home in Connecticut, according to the New York Times. The newspaper said the American composer’s death was announced by his friend and lawyer, Richard Pappas, who described it as sudden. A host of famous faces expressed their sadness at the “devastating” loss and said they were lucky to have worked with him. Lyricist Sir Tim Rice described him as a “master musical man”, Phantom Of The Opera composer Andrew Lloyd Webber said he was a “musical theatre giant”, and director Steven Spielberg said he was “a gigantic figure in American culture”. Others paying tribute included English singer Elaine Paige, who starred in the 2011 Broadway run of Sondheim’s Follies. She tweeted: “Devastated to hear one of the most important musical theatre giants of our generation, #StephenSondheim, has died. “I was lucky enough to have performed in two of his shows @FolliesBroadway & Sweeney Todd, & also have a song co-written by him for my 50th Anniversary. RIP dear man.” Lloyd Webber wrote: “Farewell Steve, the musical theatre giant of our times, an inspiration not just to two but to three generations. Your contribution to theatre will never be equalled.” Farewell Steve, the musical theatre giant of our times, an inspiration not just to two but to three generations. Your contribution to theatre will never be equalled. - ALW Sir Tim said: “RIP Stephen Sondheim, master musical man. “His words for West Side Story alone would have guaranteed him theatrical immortality but there was so much more. He bestrode songwriting like a Colossus.” RIP Stephen Sondheim, master musical man. His words for West Side Story alone would have guaranteed him theatrical immortality but there was so much more. He bestrode songwriting like a Colossus. Barbra Streisand, whose The Broadway Album featured lyrics written by Sondheim, tweeted: “Thank the Lord that Sondheim lived to be 91 years old so he had the time to write such wonderful music and GREAT lyrics! May he Rest In Peace.” Spielberg, who is directing the film adaptation of West Side Story, said Sondheim was “one of our country’s greatest songwriters, a lyricist and composer of real genius, and a creator of some of the most glorious musical dramas ever written”. In a statement reported by ABC News he said the pair had become friends recently and he “knew more about movies than almost anyone I’d ever met”. He added: “When we spoke, I couldn’t wait to listen, awestruck by the originality of his perceptions of art, politics and people – all delivered brilliantly by his mischievous wit and dazzling words. “I will miss him very much, but he left a body of work that has taught us, and will keep teaching us, how hard and how absolutely necessary it is to love.” Theatre titan Lin-Manuel Miranda tweeted: “Stephen Sondheim was real. Yes, he wrote Tony & Maria AND Sweeney Todd AND Bobby AND George & Dot AND Fosca AND countless more. Some may theorize Shakespeare’s works were by committee but Steve was real & he was here & he laughed SO loud at shows & we loved him.” Future historians: Stephen Sondheim was real. Yes, he wrote Tony & Maria AND Sweeney Todd AND Bobby AND George & Dot AND Fosca AND countless more. Some may theorize Shakespeare's works were by committee but Steve was real & he was here & he laughed SO loud at shows & we loved him Actor Hugh Jackman, star of The Greatest Showman, said: “Every so often someone comes along that fundamentally shifts an entire art form. Stephen Sondheim was one of those. “As millions mourn his passing I also want to express my gratitude for all he has given to me and so many more. Sending my love to his nearest and dearest.” Every so often someone comes along that fundamentally shifts an entire art form. Stephen Sondheim was one of those. As millions mourn his passing I also want to express my gratitude for all he has given to me and so many more. Sending my love to his nearest and dearest. pic.twitter.com/4KlnJJJipq Singer and actress Anna Kendrick said: “I was just talking to someone a few nights ago about how much fun (and f****** difficult) it is to sing Stephen Sondheim. “Performing his work has been among the greatest privileges of my career. A devastating loss.” Tony Award winner Idina Menzel said: “Goodbye dear sir. We will spend our lives trying to make you proud.” Goodbye dear sir. We will spend our lives trying to make you proud. #stephensondheim Tony winner Lea Salonga, who performed in last year’s concert to mark Sondheim’s birthday, tweeted: “Rest In Peace, Stephen Sondheim, and thank you for your vast contributions to musical theater. “We shall be singing your songs forever. Oh, my heart hurts.” He said Sondheim’s brilliance “will still be here as his legendary songs and shows will be performed for ever more” Comedian David Baddiel paid tribute on Twitter with a link to the song Sorry-Grateful, from the musical Company, saying: “The thing about Sondheim is he raised lyrics to the same level of emotional and psychological complexity as the novel.” Musical theatre star Carrie Hope Fletcher quoted Sondheim’s Into the Woods in her tribute: “Oh, if life were made of moments. Even now and then a bad one. But if life were only moments. Then you’d never know you had one! A genius, a giant, a hero. Farewell, Sondheim.” Actress Frances Barber described him as “an icon” and said it was “really the end of an era”. Musical theatre star Lucie Jones tweeted: “Urgh. My heart. Thank you Mr Sondheim. I have loved you like I could no other and will continue to.”