If there’s one thing you can always rely on Madonna for, it’s her ability to get everyone talking – and that’s exactly what she’s done with her latest impromptu Instagram photo-shoot. On Wednesday night, the Queen of Pop posted a string of scantily-clad photos of herself on social media while posing in her bed, including several snaps that feature her exposed breast. “Angel watching over me,” Madonna wrote in the caption, alluding to the stone angel on the wall behind her. Alongside the snaps, the chart-topping singer also shared a quote from the poet Mary Oliver, which read: “Beauty without purpose is beauty without virtue, but all beautiful , inherently, have this function…to excite the viewers toward sublime thought… glory to the world, that good teacher.” Of course, Madonna being Madonna, It didn’t take long for the chart-topping singer’s snaps to spark a lot of conversation on social media. One photo in particular – which showed the star underneath her bed with just her legs and bum showing – caught the attention of people on Twitter,including TV presenter Anneka Rice... Nice to see both Me and Madonna are struggling to locate the Christmas tree under the guest bed. pic.twitter.com/4WXUJ9pgJg me when I’m minding my business and suddenly a bed falls from the sky pic.twitter.com/ZoWa43eDD2 Madonna Rorschach test - I see two bald men in an embrace pic.twitter.com/jJG4kexT8L When you can’t find that matching sock pic.twitter.com/gvsBRFtIHI me looking for the airpod that i lost while i was sleep pic.twitter.com/cSGP9xANyq When you can’t find your car keys 🔑 https://t.co/WD2vTyoItM Trying to find your Christmas presents as a child pic.twitter.com/8l8zHmzyT9 And while obviously Piers Morgan was less than impressed by the Express Yourself singer’s Instagram post... Others were loving seeing Madonna being her usual provocative self… Madonna looks incredible & every criticism of her is seeped in  misogynistic bile! pic.twitter.com/d28oi7PUl1 So much ageism being displayed regarding Madonna I think the message is clear, haters: U are not getting what U want and not liking what U ll see. So just trip the station and change the channel already! She s not for U and she doesn t care about U. Face it: you should get a life and let her go on with hers. #madonna pic.twitter.com/J1WuDqWowJ Our favourite reaction of the lot has to be Kate Beckinsale, though, who managed to trick her 22-year-old daughter into thinking the photo was actually of her… Last month, Madonna raised eyebrows during an interview with US talk show host Jimmy Fallon to promote her latest concert video, Madame X. During their chaotic chat, the award-winning star climbed up on the host’s desk and struck a pose, while he attempted to cover her backside with his jacket.