Eddie Redmayne has revealed he regrets playing a transgender woman in the hit film The Danish Girl. In the 2015 movie, Eddie took on the role of the painter Lili Elbe, a real-life figure who is one of the first known people to undergo gender affirmation surgery. The Oscar-winning actor’s decision to play a trans woman received a mixed reaction at the time, and six years on, he’s admitted he now considers the film a “mistake’. “I wouldn’t take it on now,” he told The Times when asked about the role. “I made that film with the best intentions, but I think it was a mistake.” He continued: “The bigger discussion about the frustrations around casting is because many people don’t have a chair at the table. There must be a levelling, otherwise we are going to carry on having these debates.” Eddie’s performance as Lili Elbe formed part of a crucial discussion in the 2020 Netflix documentary Disclosure, which discussed depictions of transgender people in film and television. Just watched @Disclosure_Doc on Netflix, about the portrayal of trans people in cinema and TV.This clip of Jen Richards talking about cis men playing trans women is just one of many great moments in the film. pic.twitter.com/pqe1UEVNGu Around the release of The Danish Girl, Eddie told IndieWire: “I think there has been years of cisgender success on the back of trans stories. But I know that Tom [Hooper, the director] when he was making this film – many trans people worked on the film... “I hope there’s a day when there are more trans actors and trans actresses playing trans parts, but also cisgender parts. And I hope – as an actor one hopes – that one should be able to play any sort of part if one plays it with a sense of integrity and responsibility.” He also told the journalist Paris Les, as reported by Out magazine: “Look, I’ve just played a man in his 50s with motor neurone disease. I’m acting.” Eddie was nominated for a Bafta, Golden Globe and Academy Award for his performance as Lili Elbe, while his co-star Alicia Vikander picked up Best Supporting Actress at the Oscars for her role.