It’s that time of year again! With the shorter autumn days and the clocks change, darkness is coming for us earlier and earlier.  And the funny folks of Twitter are not having it. They’ve been lamenting the end of summer evenings, when 6pm felt like the start of a promising adventure. Now it feels like it’s basically midnight at 4pm. To mourn this collective loss, we rounded up 20 funny-yet-sad tweets about how early it gets dark outside now.  hello darkness my old friendwhy are you here its 4pm 6:00 PM in the summer: The night is young! Let's stay outside for hours!6:00 PM in the fall: Well it's dark, so I guess I'll just get ready for bed now. Your next task is to not mention how dark it is at 5pm for the next 3 months. pic.twitter.com/bGDpb4k0Rv I like how the sun sets at 11 AM now. I knew in theory it would get dark so early but I was still not emotionally prepared it’s real dark real early pic.twitter.com/jK2ACCT7oV every time it's dark at like 4 pm i'm like "Earth......turn around pls" So you guys wanna tell ghost stories now that it's dark out at four fifty-five-P-M? Daylight savings, where 7 AM is now 6 AM and 5 PM is now midnight I like how the fact it gets dark out so early now means you don't have to leave the house after 5 PM. It is the dead of winter and it is cold and dark at 4 p.m., so I will control what I can to maintain a sense of order and purpose: I will dress to match my coats. It gets dark early af now.. sneaky links can start at 6:00 p.m. now Me: Ready for bed?Wife: It’s 4 PM. I love when it gets dark early coz it’s an indication to stay tf indoors n only be outside if I have to. person: isn't it nice we got to sleep an extra hour last night? :)me: you fool. you idiot. look at me. look at me in the eyes. exactly you can't because it's always dark now i hate when it gets dark so early. it's literally 5pm and my brain is already planning to go to sleep lol So the sun just sets at like 12 PM now, huh? The clock strikes noon and the sky darkens with an insect cloud in the shape of a man? The voice in the walls is getting louder and blood is running out of the faucets, and we're just supposed to get used to it? I hate daylight savings I know it’s just the time change but nighttime just seems... nighttime-ier.