Next time you’re searching for the TV remote, you might want to check if your pet pooch has nabbed it, because our four-legged friends are about to get their very own TV channel. A new television network is about to launch in the UK that aims to meet all of your canine’s needs with programming created especially for dogs (and their owners). DogTV will air scientifically tested programming which aims to alleviate symptoms from conditions in dogs such as separation anxiety, loneliness and stress. The service, which will also have shows designed to help owners better understand and look after their pets, launches on 8 November. DogTV has been developed following research into animals’ physiological and psychological needs, moods and responses to audio and visual stimuli to help them feel more stimulated, relaxed or help them to sleep. The colours, audio frequencies and camera alignment have been adapted to cater to dog senses. The channel, which is already available in other countries, will also feature programmes for dog owners, including shows by celebrity dog trainer Laura Nativo, who will provide tips on how to live better at home with a pet, as well as programmes that provide simple recipes for dogs. Professor Nicholas Dodman, chief scientist for DogTV, said: “DogTV is an excellent resource for dog owners to help alleviate some of the behavioural problems that can arise when dogs are left alone. “With numbers of dog owners rising over the pandemic, and owners now returning to work, DogTV helps canines to feel relaxed and comforted until their owners return home.” British animal trainer Victoria Stilwell said: “People think that DogTV is a bit of a weird concept at first, but when I tell them the amount of research that has gone into this – that this TV channel can help their dogs while home alone, improve their lives considerably and help with different stresses and anxieties – they get it.” The service will be available on a range of smart TVs, Android and Apple devices and online. www.dogtv.com