In the absence of a marketing budget, there was plenty of pre-launch hype and fanfare ahead of the debut of GB News last Sunday. Proudly “anti-woke”, the channel’s detractors labelled it Fox News UK before it had even started broadcasting, but just hours into its launch, Twitter had  renamed it #GBeebies, thanks to a series of on-air gaffes. Things didn’t improve much as the week progressed, thanks to a mortifying amount of technical hiccups – from weird lighting and poor sound to dodgy camera work and countless awkward silences. Such was the dizzying array of daily f-ups that the newly-launched @GBNewsFails Twitter account struggled to keep up, already amassing over 60,000 followers in under a week. Here’s how the channel’s chaotic first week played out... The channel’s boss, Andrew Neil, set out the network’s stall from the off, vowing to “expose the growing promotion of cancel culture” and give a voice “to those who feel sidelined or silenced” in the channel’s first programme. Former Apprentice winner Michelle Dewberry’s big moment came on Monday, when she kicked off her regular segment, Dewbs & Co.  Monday also saw former BBC news anchor Simon McCoy make his presenting debut alongside his co-host, former Brexit Party MEP Alexandra Phillips, on their daily afternoon show. After 48 hours of teething troubles, maybe things would be a little less wobbly? Maybe not. Tuesday also saw the channel well and truly played by some mischievous viewers who managed to trick two of its presenters with the oldest prank in the book.  Three days in and surely things have settled down by now? Not quite. By Wednesday, a number of big-name brands had pulled their advertising from the channel. Furniture giants Ikea, energy provider Octopus and the cider brand Kopparberg were among those to withdraw, which did not go down well with channel boss Andrew Neil... The media regulator received almost 400 complaints after Dan Wootton’s lengthy anti-lockdown speech, comparing restrictions to “an ultra-cautious biosecurity state, copying the likes of China.” You know what GB News is missing? Flesh. Naked flesh. Comedian Adam Pacitti flashed his bum during a video call-in with Laurence Fox on Dan Wootton’s show. Not that either of them noticed. TFIF! Keep up to date with all of the latest mishaps from GB News by following @GBNewsFails on Twitter. You can watch GB News on Sky, Virgin and online.