Michaela Coel and her hit drama I May Destroy You were the big winners at this year’s TV Baftas.  Michaela was named Best Actress at the ceremony, while the show took home the prize for Best Mini Series.  Collecting the actress prize, she dedicated the award to the show’s director of intimacy Ita O’Brien, saying: “Thank you for your existence in our industry, for making the space safe for creating physical, emotional, and professional boundaries so that we can make work about exploitation, loss of respect, about abuse of power, without being exploited or abused in the process. “I know what it’s like to shoot without an intimacy director, the messy, embarrassing feeling for the crew, the internal devastation for the actor. “Your direction was essential to my show. “And I believe essential for every production company that wants to make work exploring themes of consent.” Diversity’s performance on Britain’s Got Talent won the public-voted must-see-moment award.  The performance was inspired by the events of 2020 and included references to the killing of George Floyd and the global protests in support of Black Lives Matter that followed. In his speech, Diversity leader Ashley Banjo thanked the thousands of people who complained to Ofcom about the performance. He said: “Thank you to everyone who stood by us. Every phone call, text, comment, DM, you guys made the difference to what was a really dark time, being in the storm of 30,000 complaints and just a torrent of racially charged abuse, threats, all of it, it was a dark time and that support made all the difference. “In a way, I have to say thank you to the people that complained, the people that did all of that abuse because you showed the truth. “You showed exactly why this performance, this moment, was necessary. “But for all of those people, just take a look, because as much as there are so many conversations and so much that needs to change, this is what change looks like. And I’m so proud to be standing here and so thankful to all of those people.” Elsewhere, Paul Mescal was named Best Actor for his turn in Normal People, and thanked “the best scene partner,” his co-star Daisy Edgar-Jones. Rakie Ayola paid a moving tribute to murdered black teenager Anthony Walker and his mother as she won the Supporting Actress Bafta for her role in a TV drama about the life he might have lived. Malachi Kirby was named best supporting actor for his role in Sir Steve McQueen’s anthology series Small Axe, while Sex Education star Aimee Lou Wood won the gong for female performance in a comedy programme and This Country’s Charlie Cooper won the male comedy performance prize. The awards were handed out at Television Centre in west London in front of a live but socially distanced audience of nominees. See the full list of winners from this year’s TV Baftas below.... Adam Hills, The Last Leg Bradley Walsh, Beat the Chasers Claudia Winkleman, Strictly Come Dancing David Mitchell, Would I Lie to You? at Christmas Graham Norton, The Graham Norton Show Romesh Ranganathan The Ranganation – WINNER Ghosts Inside No 9 – WINNER Man Like Mobeen  This Country  Helena Bonham Carter, The Crown Leila Farzad, I Hate Suzie Rakie Ayola, Anthony – WINNER Siena Kelly, Adult Materia Sophie Okonedo, Criminal: UK Weruche Opia, I May Destroy You Ant & Dec’s Saturday Night Takeaway Life & Rhymes – WINNER Strictly Come Dancing The Masked Singer Big Zuu’s Big Eats Long Lost Family: Born Without Trace – WINNER Mortimer & Whitehouse: Gone Fishing The Repair Shop Kunal Nayyar, Criminal: UK Malachi Kirby, Small Axe – WINNER Michael Sheen, Quiz Micheal Ward, Small Axe Rupert Everett, Adult Material Tobias Menzies, The Crown Jimmy McGovern’s Moving On Richard Osman’s House of Games The Chase The Great House Giveaway – WINNER Charlie Cooper, This Country – WINNER Guz Khan, Man Like Mobeen Joseph Gilgun, Brassic Ncuti Gatwa, Sex Education Paul Ritter, Friday Night Dinner Reece Shearsmith, Inside No 9 Extinction: The Facts Putin: A Russian Spy Story The Rise of the Murdoch Dynasty The Surgeon’s Cut – WINNER Aimee Lou Wood, Sex Education – WINNER Daisy Haggard, Breeders Daisy May Cooper, This Country Emma Mackey, Sex Education Gbemisola Ikumelo, Famalam Mae Martin, Feel Good Masterchef: The Professionals  Race Across the World The School That Tried to End Racism  – WINNER The Write Offs  Adult Material  I May Destroy You  – WINNER Normal People  Small Axe  Casualty – WINNER Coronation Street  EastEnders Hollyoaks  Bridgerton, Penelope is revealed as Lady Whistledown Britain’s Got Talent, Diversity perform a routine inspired by the BLM protests – WINNER Gogglebox, Reactions to Boris Johnson’s press conference The Mandalorian, Luke Skywalker arrives Nigella’s Cook, Eat, Repeat, Nigella Lawson’s pronunciation of microwave Crime and Punishment Hospital: Fighting Covid-19 Losing It: Our Mental Health Emergency Once Upon a Time in Iraq – WINNER Life Drawing Live! Springwatch 2020  – WINNER The Royal British Legion Festival of Remembrance  The Third Day: Autumn Charlie Brooker’s Antiviral Wipe Rob and Romesh Vs The Big Narstie Show – WINNER The Ranganation Anthony  BBW (On the Edge)  Sitting in Limbo – WINNER The Windermere Children  Gangs of London I Hate Suzie Save Me Too – WINNER The Crown John Boyega, Small Axe Josh O’Connor, The Crown Paapa Essiedu, I May Destroy You Paul Mescal, Normal People – WINNER Shaune Parkes, Small Axe Waleed Zuaiter, Baghdad Central Billie Piper, I Hate Suzie Daisy Edgar-Jones, Normal People Hayley Squires, Adult Material Jodie Comer, Killing Eve Letitia Wright, Small Axe Michaela Coel, I May Destroy You – WINNER Criptales  Disabled Not Defeated: The Rock Band With Learning Disabilities  The Main Part  They Saw The Sun First – WINNER America’s War on Abortion (Exposure) – WINNER Italy’s Frontline: a Doctor’s Diary The Battle for Hong Kong (Dispatches) The Cyprus Papers Undercover (Al Jazeera Investigations) American Murder: The Family Next Door Anton Ferdinand: Football, Racism and Me  Locked In: Breaking the Silence (Storyville) – WINNER Surviving Covid  Little America  Lovecraft Country  Unorthodox  Welcome to Chechnya: The Gay Purge (Storyville) – WINNER Bahrain Grand Prix, Sky Sports Formula One England V France: The Autumn Nations Cup Final, Amazon Prime Video England V West Indies Test Cricket, Sky Sports Cricket – WINNER London Marathon 2020, BBC One BBC News at Ten: Prime Minister Admitted to Intensive Care, BBC One Channel 4 News: Deterring Democracy, Channel 4 Newsnight: Covid Care Crisis, BBC Two Sky News: Inside Idlib, Sky News – WINNER