One of the first kitchen skills we learn as children is how to crack an egg. After all, those boxed brownie mixes need a little yolk action to work their magic.  Yet for many of us, it feels as though we’ve barely improved our egg-cracking skills since childhood. Whether you marvel at the people who manage to do it one-handed or see a shellless bowl as an impossible goal, you’re not alone.  We’ve rounded up 19 relatable and, dare we say, egg-cellent tweets about this common cooking step. Try not to crack up too much. For the life of me, I cannot master the art of cracking an egg using one hand without making a huge mess. The yolk’s on me Go ahead... press the unfollow button *Hibachi Grill Guy does the Egg crack thing*Me: pic.twitter.com/qlaKLwPaby me in the kitchen: how do i crack an eggme watching great british bake off: what kind of an idiot forgets to poke steam holes in their banquet pie [cracking an egg without having to fish out those little eggshell bits]: I'm one with the Force, the Force is with me. I have an irrational fear of cracking open an egg and a baby chick falling out. I said it was irrational..... omg i cracked an egg and it had TWO YOLKS!!! twin chicks?? isn’t that so sweet???? 🐣🥺 i ate this without remorse pic.twitter.com/OMrr1Kn99S Think you're patient? Try teaching a 7yo to crack an egg. i hate when you’re boiling an egg and it gets a crack in it and the egg’s ghost escapes. very scary and i don’t like it My son brought me a hard-boiled egg to crack for him, except it wasn't. Feeling badass after cracking eggs with one hand quickly subsided after spilling scrambled eggs on my laptop. Been making a cake with 6yo and 2yo and I let them crack the eggs straight into the mixing bowl so I guess you can say danger is my middle name Making brownies with the boys.What I say: We need to crack 2 eggs.What they hear: Cracking eggs is the best! Feel free to crack all of them!#boymom #SAHMLife 9 year-old attempts to follow a recipe:"It says here to separate the eggs. How far apart do they have to be?" i can *successfully* crack an egg with one hand-me flirting [Baking with 6yo]Husband, coming up behind us: You know, the best way to crack an egg is actually—6yo: You’re not part of this, Daddy. When you crack an egg and a fragment gets into the bowl. pic.twitter.com/PH8IpkFCm6 Before I crack an egg, I always listen to it for scratching sounds, just to make sure I am not hatching a baby chick on accident. I feel like people who know how to crack eggs with one hand have life all figured out. My tact is comparable to a toddler cracking eggs and "helping" bake.