We’re afraid to say we have some disappointing news for anyone excited about reports that Jennifer Aniston and David Schwimmer have been growing close since the Friends reunion. The acting pair – who portrayed on-off couple (or, as Phoebe would say, “lobsters”) in Friends – were the subject of rumours in this week’s edition of Closer, with a magazine “insider” claiming Jen and David had been sighted together multiple times in recent history. Closer’s claims that the recent Friends reunion special “stirred up feelings” between the two stars were subsequently picked up by a number of other media outlets, with The Mirror running a headline suggesting the two had “coupled up in real life”. However, we’d warn Friends fans not to get too swept up in what is apparently not an accurate news story. On Wednesday morning, a rep for David Schwimmer told HuffPost UK that the reports of a romance between the American Crime Story star and his former co-star are not true. A spokesperson for Jennifer Aniston subsequently denied the rumours, too. During the Friends reunion, many fans were surprised to hear David reveal that he and Jen had a mutual crush on one another during their time on the hit sitcom, though neither party ever acted on these feelings. “The first season I had a major crush on Jen,” David revealed. “And I think we both, at some point, were crushing hard on each other but it was like two ships passing because one of us was always in a relationship and we never crossed that boundary. We respected that.”  When pressed on this topic during a subsequent interview with Howard Stern, Jennifer insisted: “We were in relationships, it was always never the right time and it wouldn’t have worked. “The beauty of that was that whatever feelings we had we just literally channelled everything into Ross and Rachel and I think that’s maybe why it resonated the way it did. But no, we never – on my life, and Courteney and Lisa would know and can vouch for me.” “No. I would proudly say I banged Schwimmer if that happened,” she added. “But no.”