Multiple people have been killed after two explosions outside Kabul airport as the withdrawal of western forces from Afghanistan after two decades ended in bloodshed. The suspected terror attack was thought to be carried out by Isis-K, the affiliate of the Islamic State (IS) terror group in Afghanistan, and followed warnings a strike would be launched in the final phase of the evacuation effort. The Pentagon confirmed two blasts occurred outside Hamid Karzai International Airport on Thursday. READ MORE:  Who Are Isis-K? One explosion took place at or near the Baron Hotel, where the UK has been processing Britons and Afghans eligible for evacuation after the Taliban seized control of the nation. A short distance away, another blast occurred near the Abbey Gate of Kabul’s airport. Prime minister Boris Johnson said the UK’s evacuation effort in Afghanistan will continue despite the “barbaric” terrorist attack.  Multiple US military service members are believed to be among those killed in the attack, US officials said. The Ministry of Defence said there had been no UK military or government casualties reported at an early stage. The Taliban say at least 13 have been killed, including foreigners and children, and that members of the Taliban have been injured. Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid confirmed 52 people were injured. The Pentagon confirmed a number of US military service members are among those killed.   A witness told AP news agency that several people appear to have died and others have lost limbs. This first official report of casualties from the explosion, from the Russian Foreign Ministry, said a suicide attack had killed at least two people and wounded 15. It later said 13 have died and 15 are wounded. As many as five US troops were reportedly injured in the attack. All US diplomatic personnel were safely accounted for, but three were injured. No UK or French nationals were among the injured. An emergency hospital in Kabul said 30 people arrived with injuries after the explosion. Six were dead on arrival. Suicide bombers reportedly detonated explosives in the sewage canals outside the airport among crowds of people. Two explosions went off near Baron Hotel outside the airport – the place where UK troops have been processing evacuees. The BBC’s Nasfiseh Kohnvard tweeted: “Those inside Kabul airport were warned of a possible rocket attack. Soldiers ask people to take cover, a source inside the airport tells me.” A Pentagon spokesperson confirmed the bombing has resulted in a number of US and civilian casualties and was the result of a “complex attack”. There were breaking reports of ongoing gunfire after the explosion at the airport. The Taliban forces have arrived at the airport and are attempting to control security and traffic flow. Local residents are directing traffic outside the emergency hospital so those who are injured can enter safely. White House correspondent Jacqui Heinrich tweeted a source said “hundreds of Isis-K in the vicinity, attacks likely to continue”. Boris Johnson said the programme to evacuate people from Afghanistan will continue despite the terrorist attack at Kabul airport. The prime minister said on Thursday: “The conclusion is that we’re able to continue with the programme in the way that we’ve been running it, according to the timetable we’ve got. “That’s what we’re going to do because the overwhelming majority of those who are eligible have now been extracted from Afghanistan. “We’re going to work flat out, the military, the Foreign Office teams, the Home Office, the Border Force teams that are there getting people through as fast as they can still. “We’re going to keep going up until the last moment, but I want to repeat what I’ve been saying over the last few days: we also fully expect that those who want to leave Afghanistan after this phase one, if you like, are allowed to do that by the Taliban. “We will use all the influence that we can bring to bear with the political or economic, diplomatic, as we said at the G7, to encourage the new authorities in Afghanistan to do that.” US president Joe Biden was briefed on the explosion by an official. US Embassy warned all US citizens at Abbey Gate, East Gate or North Gate to “leave immediately”. No.10 spokesperson said: “The prime minister has been updated on the situation at the airport in Kabul and will chair a COBR later this afternoon.”  UK defence minister Ben Wallace said: “We are working urgently to establish what has happened in Kabul and its impact on the ongoing evacuation effort. “Our primary concern remains the safety of our personnel, British citizens and the citizens in Afghanistan. We are in close contact with our US and other Nato allies at an operational level on the immediate response to this incident.” Afghans had been crowding around the airport since the Taliban took control of the country, in a desperate bid to leave Afghanistan. The explosion followed warnings from the western officials that an attack could be imminent. Countries – including the US and UK – warned people not to go to the airport in case there was a suicide bombing. The biggest threat was thought to be from Isis-K, a branch of the Islamic State which is known for its suicide bombing attacks. The Taliban and Isis are enemies. Isis are known to be furious at the way the Taliban negotiated with the US to get into power, and were expected to attack before the withdrawal of western troops to undermine both the Taliban leaders in power – who promised a safe evacuation process to the west – and Nato. This is a breaking news story and will be updated. Follow HuffPost UK on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram.