Extreme heatwaves and raging wildfires have been overtaking cities around the world this week, bringing the effects of climate change to the doorsteps of thousands of people. These images show it all. The country faced a fourth day of wildfires on Friday with strong winds and soaring temperatures literally adding fuel to the fire. Greece is facing its worst heatwave in 30 years with temperatures rising above 40 degrees Celsius leaving some suburbs grappling with power outages.  Thousands of people have had to evacuate their homes on the outskirts of Athens and the nearby island of Evia. Health officials say at least 9 people have been taken to hospital with injuries, including two volunteer firefighters. California has been battling more than 12 wildfires across the state, one of them being the Dixie Fire which swept through the town of Greenville. The wildfires have been raging in the area for 3 weeks, burning 322,000 acres of land. Fire crews are still assessing the damage but buildings, homes, and vehicles have been destroyed. Congressman Doug LaMalfa who represents the area said, “We lost Greenville tonight.” “There’s just no words,” he mentioned in an emotional Facebook video. Margaret Elysia Garcia, an artist and writer from the area says she is in “shock” that the fires have taken her whole town.  Around 16,000 people have been evacuated from several different fires burning across the area. No injuries or deaths have been reported. Turkey is facing its worst wildfires the country has ever seen as recent flames sweep across coastal regions in the south. At least eight people have been killed by the fires and tens of thousands of people have been evacuated from the areas affected. Heartbreaking photos show people battling the blazes alone. President Tayyip Erdogan’s government has faced criticism that its response has been slow and inadequate. Questions have also been raised on whether the government kept aside sufficient funds to prevent forest fires from happening. Erdogan has said the criticisms are “lies” and that his government has handled natural disasters professionally. It’s clear to see that the wildfires are affecting people’s lives from the United States to the Mediterranean. The images right now are of devastation and disaster but firefighters, volunteers, and locals are hoping they’ll soon be of recovery.