Denise Welch has said she is “relieved” after a man pleaded guilty to stalking her and starting a fire at her home.  Toraq Wyngard admitted stalking the Loose Women star, causing serious alarm or distress, as well as pleading guilty to charges of possession of a knife, criminal damage, and arson after setting fire to a skip in the driveway of her Cheshire home.  The 53-year-old entered the plea ahead of a trial at Chester Crown Court on Monday, a spokesman for Cheshire Police said (via PA Media). Wyngard, of Salford, Greater Manchester, was found near to the star’s home on 19 September last year when police were called to the fire, which spread from the skip to the garage attached to the property, police said. When officers searched him, a knife was found in his backpack. In a statement released by police, Denise said: “Lincoln and I are very relieved that Toraq Wyngard, otherwise known as Todd, has pleaded guilty. “This has been an incredibly terrifying and stressful time for me and our family. “We are grateful to the fire service for their prompt action saving our house and to the police for their amazing vigilance and support. “Special thanks go to the Harm Reduction Unit assigned to us who have guided us through this horrible time every step of the way.” Detective Sergeant Dave Thomason said: “Wyngard’s actions were causing Denise great distress and a trial would have further impacted on her, so I’m pleased that he has now pleaded guilty. “I’d like to thank Denise for her bravery in coming forward and I hope this reassures other victims that we do listen and take action against those who carry out such distressing crimes in our communities. “Our Specialist Victim Advocates in the Harm Reduction Unit have been supporting Denise and her husband throughout – providing practical support, safety planning and advocacy. “The Specialist Victims’ Advocates are currently providing direct support to a number of stalking victims across Cheshire in highly complex stalking cases, and I hope seeing this outcome will give others going through a similar ordeal the confidence to come forward and get the support and advice they need to end their nightmare. “We will listen and we will help you get the right support in your case, just as we have done with Denise. Don’t suffer in silence, call us on 101 or report it via our website.” Wyngard is due to be sentenced on 26 October after the case was adjourned for psychiatric reports.