Prime minister Boris Johnson rearranged those in the top government roles on Wednesday, as his spokesperson vows he has “put in place a strong and united team to Build Back Better from the pandemic”. Here’s a breakdown of who’s in – and who’s now out. We’ll be updating this story.  Out: Dominic Raab In: Liz Truss Dominic Raab has been kicked out of his role as foreign secretary after two years in the job. In recent weeks, he has been widely accused of mishandling the Afghanistan crisis and going on a family holiday as the Taliban took hold of the country. Reporters on the ground believed he was pushing back against a demotion, but he has just been appointed as the new justice secretary, lord chancellor and deputy prime minister. Johnson’s administration did not have a deputy prime minister until now. The BBC’s political editor Laura Kuenssberg tweeted: “No 10 keen for this not to be seen as demotion after Afghanistan – Raab gets Deputy PM title too, sources emphasising his experience as [a] lawyer.” Liz Truss, international trade secretary, has been announced as Raab’s replacement. She is expected to keep her other role as women and equality’s minister. Out: Gavin Williamson In: Nadhim Zahawi Gavin Williamson has been sacked as education secretary after a controversial run. He faced extensive criticism for his handling of A-level and GCSE exams throughout the pandemic, while his public appearances often triggered widespread ridicule online. Williamson tweeted that it had been a “privilege” to serve in the role since 2019, and that he is proud of his work. Nadhim Zahawi, minister for business and industry since 2019 and vaccines minister since 2020, is set to take Williamson’s old role. He oversaw the successful national rollout of the Covid jabs. Out: Robert Buckland In: Dominic Raab Robert Buckland was fired as lord chancellor and justice secretary after two years on the job. He was prominent supporter for the Remain campaign leading up the EU referendum. He previously served as prisons minister and was particularly popular with Labour MPs during his time on the front benches. Dominic Raab is set to be Buckland’s replacement as justice secretary, and lord chancellor. Out: Robert Jenrick In: Michael Gove Robert Jenrick was kicked out of the ministry for housing, communities and local government. Michael Gove is set to be Jenrick’s replacement, having served as the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster since July 2019. Gove is also set to take on responsibility for the Union and elections as well. Gove’s role as Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster has been filled by Steve Barclay, who had been chief secretary to the Treasury. Out: Amanda Milling In: Oliver Dowden Amanda Milling has been kicked out of her role as co-chair of the Conservative Party. This is a role mainly overseeing the administration of the Tory party which Milling was in from February 2020. Oliver Dowden will be taking over from Milling, having served as the culture secretary since 2020. Out: Liz Truss In: Anne-Marie Trevelyan Liz Truss has been promoted to a more senior role of foreign secretary after her successful stint as the international trade secretary from 2019. Anne-Marie Trevelyan, a junior business minister, has been appointed a her replacement. “Trade it is”, confirming her new cabinet role, she said as she left Number 10. Out: Oliver Dowden In: Nadine Dorries  Oliver Dowden has been moved out of his role as culture secretary and put in as the co-chair of the Conservative Party. He hit the headlines over the last year for criticising the “noisy woke brigade” repeatedly in his role, seeking the privatisation of Channel 4 and the odd gaffe. Nadine Dorries has now been confirmed as Dowden’s replacement, having been a the minister for mental health, suicide prevention and patient safety since 2019.