After being pushed back not once but twice, this year’s National Television Awards were finally able to go ahead on Thursday night. Bringing together so many big names from the world of British telly in one room always makes for an eventful evening, and this year’s ceremony was truly no exceptions. Comedian and host of The Masked Singer Joel Dommett was on presenting duties, bringing his unashamedly cheesy sense of humour to the proceedings, with Line Of Duty and Coronation Street the two biggest-winning shows of the night. But aside from the big wins, red carpet arrivals and obvious scene-stealing moments, here’s what else you might have missed from the 2021 NTAs…  While performing his latest single, HRVY was joined on stage by Janette Manrara, with whom he made it to the final of Strictly Come Dancing last year.  As we’re sure is the dream of every burgeoning popstar, this was followed by the arrival of the whole cast of ITV’s The Masked Dancer, who served as backing for the number. Sadly, Bonnie Langford resisted the urge to jump into the splits. This was followed by a rousing montage of shows we watched throughout the pandemic, from I May Destroy You and Normal People to Tiger King and a thing called “the news” that was supposedly quite popular while people were stuck inside? He pulled some shapes while Line Of Duty celebrated the first of its two wins during this year’s NTAs. “I’ll keep it short, this is already interminable,” the comedian said following After Life’s win. After hailing Netflix for their “support and total lack of interference”, he thanked those who’d voted for his show. “Thank you so much,” Ricky added. “You’re the reason I do this… the money. You’re the second reason. I do it for the money. Cheers.”  ...And the Challenge Show award goes to The Great British Bake Off ✨#NTAspic.twitter.com/ETDjbq3AHs There was then a flashback to 2020 as the NTAs struggled to dial in the Great British Bake Off presenters and judges to celebrate the moment. Seriously, can we leave Zoom woes in 2021? In her emotional speech, she dedicated the award “to anybody who feels like you don’t fit the mould. You’re amazing as you are”. Highlighting parallels between the AIDS crisis and the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, the It’s A Sin writer took a moment to honour “those we lost, those who lived, those who learnt and those we loved”. Extremely camp.  He was joking, we should probably stress.  In among the celebrations, Julie took a moment to remember those from the Gogglebox family who have died in the last 18 months, including “everyone’s favourite grandma” June Bernicoff. There wasn’t a dry eye in the house as Kate Garraway gave a special shout out to her husband, Derek Draper, who is still struggling with Covid-related complications, after contracting coronavirus in March 2020. “He should have had the chance to tell his own story,” she said. “Derek, you’re going to get the chance – believe! The hope is real.”  The Coronation Street star won Best Newcomer on the night – and had to be lifted up to the mic by Joel Dommett to deliver his speech. “Oh my word, this is amazing,” Jude told the crowd. “I’d just like to say thank you to my fans for voting for me and the Corrie cast and crew for helping me, and my friends and family for supporting me.”  This marked Ant and Dec’s 20th year in succession triumphing in that category, a truly remarkable feat. “When we won this award for the first time, Tony Blair was prime minister and Newcastle United had qualified for the Champions’ League,” Ant joked. “That’s how long ago it was.” “It’s an abnormal world,” Holly Willoughby said. “We just wanted to give you a normal morning.” Sore heads in the morning is a distinct possibility...  He wasn’t even there, and he still got booed.