Jeremy Clarkson was reportedly left uncharacteristically silent after three tonnes of mushroom compost was tipped over his car. The incident took place outside the former Top Gear host’s Diddly Squat farm shop in Chadlington, Oxfordshire on Tuesday. A man driving a digger tipped the waste over the presenter’s Range Rover as a group of ‘protesters’, who had pitched up tents next to the shop, cheered on and held up placards. Eco-warriors dump three tonnes of MUSHROOM COMPOST over Jeremy Clarkson's gleaming Range Rover https://t.co/EXvbu1Tuilpic.twitter.com/Yoxi2bqsqd But all was not as it seemed as it all turned out to be a prank - organised by Ant and Dec for the new series of Saturday Night Takeaway.   The presenter became the TV duo’s latest victim as they filmed his stunned reaction undercover. According to the Mail Online, the presenter had attempted to speak to the ‘protestors’ on Tuesday morning. “Normally he has an opinion on everything, but he just stood there silent as all this stuff landed on his car,” one of them told the MailOnline. But on Thursday, Clarkson tweeted that it had all been in the name of entertainment, and that no ‘protest’ had taken place. Contrary to what those halfwits at the Mail are claiming, there was no protest of any kind at Diddly Squat farm shop yesterday. Clarkson is embroiled in an on-going battle over his plans for the future of the farm, which is the setting for the Amazon series Clarkson’s Farm. The Grand Tour presenter opened the farm shop last year to sell merchandise and food produced at his Diddly Squat Farm, which he bought back in 2008. He recently revealed that he wanted to build a restaurant in an old lambing shed on his land. But his plans went “down like a shower of sick with a few red-trouser people in my local village,” according to the star. The second series of Clarkson’s Farm is set to be released later this year. This article has been updated after it emerged the incident was a prank set up for Ant And Dec’s Saturday Night Takeaway.