After a year out, the Met Gala was back with a bang on Monday night. While the annual A-list event is famously held on the first Monday in May, organisers clearly felt that this would simply be too long to make us wait in 2021, so decided to throw together a little something for September. This year, the event was chaired by singer Billie Eilish, Oscar nominee Timothée Chalamet, poet Amanda Gorman and tennis pro Naomi Osaka, with the theme being “In America: A Lexicon of Fashion”. As ever, some of the stars in attendance understood the assignment completely, and others missed the mark somewhat. Here are 18 of the must-see looks from the 2021 Met Ball... Serving: Marilyn Monroe reimagined as a Disney princess. She nailed it, let’s be honest. Serving: Zoom call eleganza. Party up top, comfies down below. Serving: Why give just one look when you can serve three this good?  Serving: “I’m just running out to the shop, does anybody want anything?”  Serving: “Does anyone still wear a hat? I’ll drink to that...”  Serving: Three words... Met Gala royalty.  Serving: “Kim? Is that you under there…?” Serving: “Switchin’ the positions for you, cookin’ in the kitchen and up in the bedroom.” Serving: “A plain suit? I don’t think.” Serving: Got dressed in a hurry and forgot one key component… not that we’re complaining, obviously.  Serving: Yes! She literally is! Get it...? Serving? Tennis? Moving on...  Serving: Good luck getting that through the metal detectors Serving: First time at the Met Gala and... she’s going all out.  Serving: First time at the Met Gala and… he’s wearing a plain black suit. Your mum taught you better than this, Brooklyn. Serving: “Dancing the Salsa, it’s rapper Megan Thee Stallion and her partner Aljaž Škorjanec...”  Serving: “If you’ve got anything to say about a YouTuber being at the Met Gala, you can say it to my headpiece.” Serving: When you really want to go to the Met Gala but you also really fancy a duvet day. Serving: Well, her message is literally on her dress.