Katie Price has pleaded guilty to drink-driving while disqualified and without insurance, following a crash near her home in Sussex on Tuesday. The former glamour model, 43, appeared at Crawley Magistrates’ Court on Wednesday following the collision on the B2135 near Partridge Green. She was charged with driving while unfit to drive through drink, using a motor vehicle on a public place without third party insurance and driving while disqualified. A previous statement from Sussex Police said: “Katie Price, 43, of Worthing Road, Horsham, was charged with using a motor vehicle on a public place without third party insurance and driving whilst disqualified. “She was remanded in custody and will appear at Crawley Remand Court on Wednesday (September 29).” An image shared by police from the scene on Tuesday showed a car flipped on its side. Officers responded to the crash at around 6.20am, where Katie was arrested on suspicion of driving while above the legal limit for alcohol and drugs, and was taken to hospital. A statement said: “Police responded to reports of a single-vehicle collision on the B2135 near Partridge Green around 6.20am on Tuesday (September 28) “A woman was arrested on suspicion of driving while above the legal limit for alcohol and drugs, and has been taken to hospital to be checked over “The road was blocked temporarily while recovery of the vehicle was arranged.” A statement from the South East Coast Ambulance Service NHS Foundation Trust said: “South East Coast Ambulance was called at approximately 6.30am to reports of an RTC on the B2135 at Partridge Green. “One ambulance crew attended the scene and one person was assessed and treated before being taken to hospital.” Police said the road was reopened at 9.26am. Appearing on ITV’s Good Morning Britain on Monday, the day before the incident, Katie claimed she is banned from driving until the end of the year. Discussing her 19-year-old son Harvey Price, she said: “Harvey’s in Cheltenham now. “He keeps ringing me saying, ‘Mummy I miss you, I need kisses and cuddles’, so it is quite hard because obviously I don’t get my licence back until December, so I can’t just whizz in the car down there and it’s not close.”