At the last Labour Party conference, leader Jeremy Corbyn opened his keynote speech to hundreds of activists singing: “Oooh Jeremy Corbyn!” The burning issue in September 2019 was the Brexit deadlock, with Corbyn using his Brighton address to rally campaigners behind a snap general election (once no-deal had been ruled out). Corbyn was forced to deliver his big speech a day early as conference was dramatically cut short after the supreme court ruled Boris Johnson’s prorogation of parliament was unlawful. MPs and journalists made a frenzied dash back to Westminster and just a few weeks later Corbyn backed the poll that cemented his downfall and plunged Labour into its worst defeat since 1935.  Sir Keir Starmer was voted in as leader and Corbyn was suspended from the party for his response to a damning Equality and Human Rights Commission report into anti-Semitism.  Despite Corbyn being reinstated as a member of the party last November, Starmer has declined to restore the whip meaning he will return to Brighton this weekend as an independent MP.  The event, which runs from Saturday 25 to Wednesday 29, will be Starmer’s first proper conference since his election as leader. Meanwhile, in just two years Corbyn has gone from being the main event to the fringe events. Here HuffPost UK guides you through some of the events Corbyn is invited to and tipped to attend. The MP for Islington North is invited to at least five events in the Labour Party fringe programme and three at the The World Transformed - a parallel event linked to the Momentum campaign group which helped elect him leader. There is also a number events at TWT dedicated to Corbyn’s leadership, although HuffPost UK has not noted any at the Labour Party conference.  Covid, Capitalism And The Media: Holding Power To Account  On Saturday night Corbyn is invited to an event hosted by the Morning Star newspaper alongside MP Richard Burgon who served on his frontbench as shadow justice secretary. Climate Change & Food Production - Why The Government Must Act Now Sunday lunchtime Corbyn is down for an event alongside Unite the union chiefs talking about food and agriculture.  How Can We Fight The UK’s Nuclear Arsenal Increase? Sunday evening the former Labour leader has been invited to an event hosted by the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament.  Coffee Meet and Greet - Stop Fire and Rehire  On Tuesday morning Corbyn is listed as a speaker for an event hosted by Barry Gardiner MP on his bill to stop fire and rehire.  How Can We End 20 Years Of War On Terror? Tuesday lunchtime, the independent MP is listed as a speaker at an event hosted by Stop The War Coalition.  Winning Climate Justice 1: Call for Action Sunday lunchtime, the London MP is listed as a speaker at an event on how an unjust system compounds crises including climate, covid and racism. Other MPs listed include Zarah Sultana, Olivia Blake and Clive Lewis. War on Terror: 20 Years on It appears Corbyn might have a diary clash on Tuesday lunchtime, as he is invited to discuss the invasion of Iraq and Afghanistan at both party conference and TWT. Socialist Campaign Group Rally  On the final night of Labour conference, Corbyn is expected to take part in a rally alongside MPs from the Socialist Campaign Group - that includes a number of his former shadow cabinet. MPs down to attend include Diane Abbott, Richard Burgon, Rebecca Long-Bailey and his former shadow chancellor John McDonnell. Events at TWT dedicated to discussing the Corbyn era include: What can we learn from the Corbyn years? Described as an “opening event” for the TWT conference, this panel will hear from “key figures” involved in the project. Those on the invite list for the Saturday event include Richard Burgon and former adviser Andrew Dolan. Socialist Strategy After Jeremy Corbyn A panel from the Momentum leadership will discuss how they can strengthen the socialist movement and why the Labour party is still the best way of achieving it.  In a recent interview with HuffPost UK’s Commons People podcast, Angela Smith, Labour’s leader in the House of Lords, said Corbyn must not try to “damage” Starmer’s conference. Asked how Starmer should react if people in the audience start singing Corbyn’s name during his conference speech, Smith said:  “If people are seen to be disrupting that, I think Labour Party members and trade unions will not be happy about that,. “There was always a core that loved Jeremy whatever he does, there was always a core that hated him whatever he did. “The bulk of members just wanted Labour leaders to succeed.  “If Jeremy tries to damage conference in that way, a lot of people who supported him previously will be bitterly disappointed, because that would be a very un-Labour, and in Labour Party terms, un-comradely, thing to do.” A spokesperson for Jeremy Corbyn said: “Jeremy Corbyn is visiting Brighton to speak at a number of important events relating to this work as a prominent campaigner for peace and justice, including on the need to tackle climate change, lessons of 20 years of the ‘War on Terror’ and in defence of workers’ rights.”