Sajid Javid MP, Secretary of State for Health and Social Care, HM Government Eluned Morgan AS/MS, Minister for Health and Social Services, Welsh Government Humza Yousaf MSP, Cabinet Secretary for Health and Social Care, ScottishGovernment Robin Swann MLA, Minister of Health Northern Ireland Executive 13 September 2021   Dear Secretary of State, Cabinet Secretary and Ministers, Universal vaccination of children and young people aged 12-15 years against COVID-19.   1) The Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) in their adviceto you on the 2nd September 2021 on this subject said: “Overall, the committee is of the opinion that the benefits from vaccination aremarginally greater than the potential known harms… but acknowledges that there is considerable uncertainty regarding the magnitude of the potential harms. The margin of benefit, based primarily on a health perspective, is considered too small to support advice on a universal programme of vaccination of otherwise healthy 12-15-year-old children at this time…. JCVI is constituted with expertise to allow consideration of the health benefits and risks of vaccination and it is not within its remit to incorporate indepth considerations on wider societal impacts, including educational benefits. The government may wish to seek further views on the wider societal and educational impacts from the Chief Medical Officers of the 4 nations, with representation from JCVI in these subsequent discussions.” (Our emphasis). Their full advice to you isappended in Annexe A. 2) You accepted this recommendation from JCVI, and wrote to us on 2ndSeptember 2021 stating “We agree with the approach suggested by JCVI,and so we are writing to request that you take forward work (drawing onexperts as you see fit) to consider the matter from a broader perspective, assuggested by the JCVI.” The Terms of Reference (ToR) of this request, whichthe UK CMOs agreed, can be found at Annexe B. 3) In doing so we have been fortunate to have been informed by theindependent expertise of leaders of the clinical and public health professionfrom across the UK. This has included Presidents and Chairs or theirrepresentative of the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health, the Royal College of General Practice, the Royal College of Psychiatry, the Faculty ofPublic Health, the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges representing all theother Royal Colleges and Faculties, the Association of Directors of PublicHealth, Regional Directors of Public Health, national public health specialistsand experts in data and modelling. We are very grateful to them for takingconsiderable time and effort to consult their own colleagues in all 4 nations atshort notice to get a comprehensive view of the balance of informed medicalopinion and experience across the UK. 4) In addition, we have examined data from the Office for National Statistics aswell as published data on the impact of COVID-19 on education, and otherrelevant published sources. We attach key published inputs at Annexe C. 5) The UK’s independent regulator of medicines and vaccines the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is in law the appropriatebody to determine whether, based on risk-benefit grounds, a vaccine is safeand effective to use and so grant a licence. They have done so for childrenand young people aged over 12 years for two vaccines against COVID-19,those manufactured by Pfizer and Moderna. Their assessment is that benefitsexceed risks on an individual basis. We take their independent opinion asread. The MHRA position on mRNA vaccines is similar to the relevantregulatory approvals granted in the same age groups in multiple otherjurisdictions including but not limited to the USA, the European Union, andCanada. 6) The independent JCVI is the proper body to give advice on how to deploy avaccine which has a prior favourable risk-benefit decision and authorisationfrom MHRA including whether it has a sufficiently large benefit to be worthdeploying on a larger, population scale. Like MHRA they consider the benefitsof vaccination in this age group exceed the risks (i.e. it is better to bevaccinated than not vaccinated in this age group). They balanced the risk ofCOVID-19 against the risks of vaccination, including myocarditis. Whenforming its advice, the JCVI considered vaccine use according to clinical riskgroups, thus identifying different groups according to their potential to benefitfrom vaccination. For 12 – 15 year olds who do not have underlying healthconditions that place them at higher risk from severe COVID-19, the JCVIconsidered that the size of both the risk and the benefit are at an individuallevel very small, and the overall advantage for vaccination, whilst present, istherefore not sufficiently large to recommend universal vaccination on theirusual criteria. They deemed the extent to which vaccination might mitigate theimpacts of COVID-19 on education was beyond the usual remit of the JCVI.They recognised however that given the substantial scale of the impact ofCOVID-19 on all children and young people, which goes beyond normalclinical benefit and risk, wider issues could, exceptionally, be relevant hencetheir suggestion to consult UK CMOs. The JCVI have already recommendedthat children and young people aged 12-17 with specific underlying health conditions, and children and young people who are aged 12 years and overwho are household contacts of persons who are immunocompromised areoffered two doses of a vaccine, normally Pfizer BioNTech BNT162b2. Theyhave recommended all young people 16-17 are offered an initial first dose ofvaccine. 7) The UK has benefited from having data from the USA, Canada and Israel,which have already offered vaccines universally to children and young peopleaged 12-15. 8) The UK CMOs start from the position that the MHRA and JCVI set out onindividual benefit-risk calculations for this age group, and have not revisitedthis. We accept that at an individual level benefit exceeds risk but thisadvantage is small, and we have taken the JCVI figures as the UK currentposition on this question. 9) The Chair of the JCVI Prof. Lim has been a member of our group to ensurethat there is no duplication of effort or conflict between the views of UK CMOsand the JCVI. We have been fortunate to have been joined also by the leadDeputy Chief Medical Officers for vaccines Prof. Van Tam (England), Prof.Steedman (Scotland) and Dr. Chada (Northern Ireland) and the DHSC ChiefScientific Adviser, Prof. Chappell. The final advice is that of the Chief MedicalOfficers, but informed by independent senior clinical and public health inputfrom across the UK. 10) UK CMOs have decided in their ToR that we will only consider benefits anddisbenefits to those aged 12-15 from vaccinating this age group, includingindirect benefits. Whilst there may be benefits to other age groups, these havenot been considered in our advice below. 11) Issues of vaccine supply were not factors considered in decision making. 12) The UK CMOs are aware of the extensive range of non-clinical views but this UK CMOs advice is purely clinical and public health derived and has not taken issues outside their clinical and public health remit into account. There is a subsequent political process where wider societal issues may be consideredby Ministers in deciding how they respond to this advice. 13) All drugs, vaccines and surgical procedures have both risks and benefits. Ifthe risks exceed benefits the drug, vaccine or procedure should not beadvised, and a drug or vaccine will not be authorised by MHRA. If benefitsexceed risks then medical practitioners may advise the drug or vaccine, butthe strength of their advice will depend on the degree of benefit over risk. 14) At an individual level, the view of the MHRA, the JCVI and internationalregulators is that there is an advantage to someone aged 12-15 of beingvaccinated over being unvaccinated. The COVID-19 Delta variant is highlyinfectious and very common, so the great majority of the unvaccinated will getCOVID-19. In those aged 12-15, COVID-19 rarely, but occasionally, leads toserious illness, hospitalisation and even less commonly death. The risks ofvaccination (mainly myocarditis) are also very rare. The absolute advantageto being vaccinated in this age group is therefore small (‘marginal’) in the viewof the JCVI. On its own the view of the JCVI is that this advantage, whilstpresent, is insufficient to justify a universal offer in this age group. Acceptingthis advice, UK CMOs looked at wider public health benefits and risks ofuniversal vaccination in this age group to determine if this shifts the riskbenefit either way. 15) Of these, the most important in this age group was impact on education. UKCMOs also considered impact on mental health and operational issues suchas any possible negative impact on other vaccine programmes, noting thatinfluenza vaccination and other immunisations of children and young peopleare well-established, important, and that the annual flu vaccine deploymentprogramme commences imminently. 16) The UK CMOs, in common with the clinical and wider public healthcommunity, consider education one of the most important drivers of improvedpublic health and mental health, and have laid this out in their advice toparents and teachers in a previous joint statement (Annexe D). Evidence fromclinical and public health colleagues, general practice, child health and mentalhealth consistently makes clear the massive impact that absent, or disrupted,face-to-face education has had on the welfare and mental health of manychildren and young people. This is despite remarkable efforts by parents andteachers to maintain education in the face of disruption. 17) The negative impact has been especially great in areas of relative deprivation which have been particularly badly affected by COVID-19. The effects of missed or disrupted education are even more apparent and enduring in these areas. The effects of disrupted education, or uncertainty, on mental health are well recognised. There can be lifelong effects on health if extended disruption to education leads to reduced life chances. 18) Whilst full closures of schools due to lockdowns is much less likely to benecessary in the next stages of the COVID-19 epidemic, UK CMOs expect theepidemic to continue to be prolonged and unpredictable. Local surges ofinfection, including in schools, should be anticipated for some time. Wherethey occur, they are likely to be disruptive. 19) Every effort should be taken to minimise school disruption in policy decisions and local actions. Vaccination, if deployed, should only be seen as an adjunct to other actions to maintain children and young people in secondary school and minimise further education disruption and therefore medium and longer term public health harm. 20) On balance however, UK CMOs judge that it is likely vaccination will helpreduce transmission of COVID-19 in schools which are attended by childrenand young people aged 12-15 years. COVID-19 is a disease which can bevery effectively transmitted by mass spreading events, especially with Deltavariant. Having a significant proportion of pupils vaccinated is likely to reducethe probability of such events which are likely to cause local outbreaks in, orassociated with, schools. They will also reduce the chance an individual childgets COVID-19. This means vaccination is likely to reduce (but not eliminate)education disruption. 21) Set against this there are operational risks that COVID-19 vaccination couldinterfere with other, important, vaccination programmes in schools includingflu vaccines. 22) Overall however the view of the UK CMOs is that the additional likely benefits of reducing educational disruption, and the consequent reduction in public health harm from educational disruption, on balance provide sufficient extra advantage in addition to the marginal advantage at an individual levelidentified by the JCVI to recommend in favour of vaccinating this group. Theytherefore recommend on public health grounds that Ministers extend the offerof universal vaccination with a first dose of Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19vaccine to all children and young people aged 12-15 not already covered byexisting JCVI advice. 23) If Ministers accept this advice, UK CMOs would want the JCVI to give a view on whether, and what, second doses to give to children and young peopleaged 12-15 once more data on second doses in this age group has accruedinternationally. This will not be before the Spring term. 24) In recommending this to Ministers, UK CMOs recognise that theoverwhelming benefits of vaccination for adults, where risk-benefit is verystrongly in favour of vaccination for almost all groups, are not as clear-cut forchildren and young people aged 12-15. Children, young people and theirparents will need to understand potential benefits, potential side effects andthe balance between them. 25) If Ministers accept this advice, issues of consent need to take this much more balanced risk-benefit into account. UK CMOs recommend that the RoyalColleges and other professional groups are consulted in how best to presentthe risk-benefit decisions in a way that is accessible to children and youngpeople as well as their parents. A childcentred approach to communicationand deployment of the vaccine should be the primary objective. 26) If Ministers accept this advice, it is essential that children and young peopleaged 12-15 and their parents are supported in their decisions, whateverdecisions they take, and are not stigmatised either for accepting, or notaccepting, the vaccination offer. Individual choice should be respected. Chief Medical Officer for England Prof. Christopher WhittyChief Medical Officer for Northern Ireland Sir Michael McBrideChief Medical Officer for Scotland Dr. Gregor SmithChief Medical Officer for Wales Dr. Frank Atherton