Marriage is full of highs, lows and a whole bunch of ordinary moments in between. And somehow, the spouses of Twitter continue to find humor in the minutiae of married life ― and sum it up perfectly in no more than 280 characters. Every other week, we round up the funniest marriage tweets of the previous 14 days. Read on for 29 new, relatable ones that will have you laughing in agreement. Once you have kids, every argument you have with your spouse becomes “DID YOU HAVE TO WAIT UNTIL THE KIDS WERE ALSEEP TO DO THAT UNNECESSARILY LOUD THING?” [wife on deathbed]Husband: I can’t find the ketchup. hubby wanted to know what i did while he exercises so instead of confessing i scroll my phone and eat snacks i said i was writing a novel so now i eat snacks and scroll my phone with my laptop open next to me Let’s get married and have kids so we can be annoyed by little versions of ourselves for the rest of our lives. married sext: my headache is going away My husband thought he was going to crop dust the people behind us. He didn’t know we were about to stop and look at something.So yeah my whole family was just stuck in his stench in a well designed model room in IKEA. 48% of marriages end in IKEA. I talk to my wife all the time about watching stuff and she will be like “we watched that two days ago.” I can only imagine when she is staring at me she’s thinking “wow, so your 30s is when the dementia starts.” When I’m angry with my wife I fold the towels in half instead of in thirds Me: Everything's so beautiful after the first rain. It's all blurry, soft edges, even those two trees look like one giant tree...Husband:Husband: You forgot your glasses again. My wife asked if we could just donate money to our kid’s elementary school PTA instead of messing with the fundraiser, as if I needed another reminder I married the right lady. MY WIFE BROUGHT HOME TOASTED MARSHMALLOW FLAVORED HARD SELTZERS INSTEAD OF BEER AM I DEAD IS THIS HELL AM I DEAD when you've just gotten the kids to sleep and your spouse comes crashing into the room pic.twitter.com/G3H1J0Esfd My husband decided to work from home today. My Friday is ruined. My wife just left for work in her slippers. She’ll be back. 15 years of marriage and last night I scared the living daylights out of my husband by getting into bed with him, so no you never really do get used to being married Is it grounds for divorce if you’re on a road trip and your husband refuses to stop to get snacks? Yeah, I thought so. My wife mentally screenshots everything I say into her memory. My husband just put barbecue sauce on his bagel. I’m gonna cry. Me: The baby threw her potatoes all over the floor.Wife: Interesting.Me: And the dogs ran to get some but slipped in it and got it everywhere!Wife: InnterestingggMe: Then I went off and had an affair.Wife: InnnterestinggggMe: ...You’re reading about murder aren’t you? Me: I’ll end up doing the laundry later or later. Husband: Don’t you mean “I’ll do it sooner or later”?Me: Aww thanks babe, I hate laundry. Did you know if your husband doesn’t say “Looks like someone left all the lights on” while turning off the ONE light that was actually on, The Council of Husbands and Fathers will revoke his membership card My wife just informed me that she has already purchased my Christmas present for this year, which reminds me, I’ve gotta figure out what I’m doing for her birthday on Wednesday. When your spouse wakes up ten minutes after you if you don’t ask “half day today” are you even married?