Boris Johnson has denied he is imposing lockdown “by stealth” after Tory MPs vented anger at advice to cut socialising during the Christmas period. The prime minister said the situation this Christmas was “very different” to last year. However he warned that people should “think carefully” about who they mix with during the festive period, prompting criticism that he was effectively cutting custom for businesses up and down the country. Asked whether Johnson had ordered another lockdown “by stealth”, he replied: “What we have is the additional protection of the vaccines, and the ability to test. “So if you want to do something, if you want to go to an event or a party, then the sensible thing to do, if that’s a priority, the sensible thing to do is to get a test and to make sure that you’re being cautious. “But we’re not saying that we want to cancel stuff, we’re not locking stuff down, and the fastest route back to normality is to get boosted.” Johnson is facing anger from his own side after holding a press conference with the chief medical officer, Chris Whitty, in which he urged people to be cautious about mixing with others over the festive period — but stopped short of imposing further rules. And Whitty told the briefing: “There are several things we don’t know about Omicron, but all the things we do know are bad. “I think that what most people are doing is, and I would think this seems very sensible, is prioritising the social interactions that really matter to them and, to protect those ones, de-prioritising ones that matter much less to them,” he said. “I think that’s going to become increasingly important as we, for example, go into the Christmas period.” Earlier in the Commons, Tory MP Steve Brine said medical advisers were “running the show” when it came to Covid policy. He claimed Whitty “at a stroke...changed government policy and put this country, certainly hospitality… into effective lockdown”. The warning has triggered fears that pubs, bars and restaurants could suffer huge losses if people choose to voluntarily stay away. Torsten Bell, the chief executive of the Resolution Foundation economics think-tank, said: “If you’re telling people to avoid hospitality, it doesn’t matter if you’re not banning them from doing so: restaurants, pubs, bars are going to get stuffed. They’ll lose customers and workers will lose their jobs.”