The writer bell hooks was not just a profound literary figure for many women – she was their introduction to womanhood, self-actualisation, and shaped their expectations of love.  On Thursday, her family revealed that the author, professor, and feminist activist died at home in Kentucky, US, surrounded by her loved ones. Born Gloria Jean Watkins in the segregated town of Hopkinsville, Kentucky in 1952, hooks took her name from her maternal great-grandmother and spelled it in lower case letters as she wanted the focus to be on her message, not her. She wrote more than 30 books exploring feminism, race, capitalism and more, was a fierce advocate for Black women and shaped the lives of many. Tributes to her work have poured in on social media and continue to do so, with established writers such as Roxanne Gay and Bernardine Evaristo also sharing their homages and why hooks inspired them. Here are a collection of tweets honouring the acclaimed writer. bell hooks' body of work taught me that i can just write if I want to. she didn't care about pleasing academia, she cared about her work being accessible and about thinking through all sides of an issue. she taught me that thinking is never in vain, and that writing is an action. bell hooks has taught me so much. I’m grateful for everything she’s left us with. may she rest in peace. I can’t describe how much bell hooks has influenced me as a writer and as an academic, her writing made me feel comfortable with being critical what bell hooks particularly gifted me is a language of grief that is situated in love. her insistence in thinking of love and grief as symbiotic forces, as practices that depend on one another, has impacted me for the rest of my life. grief is the greatest expression of love. bell hooks has taught us so much about life and love. Her influence on our lives as black women has been healing and empowering. Her legacy will live on forever, through her work and through everyone whose lives she has changed. Thank you bell. Rest in Power. pic.twitter.com/XWWtl7Mqb6