We hope you love the products we recommend! All of them were independently selected by our editors. Just so you know, HuffPost UK may collect a share of sales or other compensation from the links on this page if you decide to shop from them. Oh, and FYI — prices are accurate and items in stock as of time of publication. New Plan B measures to tackle the spread of the Omicron variant have come into force – and top of the list is the re-introduction of face mask mandates. The new government guidance for England says people should now be wearing masks or face coverings in most public indoor areas, unless they are exempt for health reasons. That includes on all public transport, communal areas of secondary schools, and in a variety of settings including: Supermarkets, shops and shopping centres Banks, post offices and estate agents Doctors’ surgeries, hospitals, pharmacies and vets Theatres, cinemas, museums and galleries Places of worship and community centres Food and drink takeaways. Currently, it’s not mandatory to wear a mask or covering in restaurants, pubs, bars and hospitality venues in England, and there are exceptions to wearing masks in other venues where eating, drinking, exercising or singing is involved. There’s a reason for masks being back on the agenda. The biggest scientific review to date has shown masks to be the single most effective non-medical public health measure we can take to protect each other from Covid-19. While the aim of face masks is to stop the spread of Covid particles to other people when we breathe, speak, cough or sneeze in their vicinity, studies also show they are effective in reducing your own risk of catching coronavirus. Some basic things to consider:  Check that your mask or covering fits snugly around your nose and mouth If wearing a cloth covering, it should have at least two layers of material Change and wash your reusable face coverings regularly Dispose of masks and coverings responsibly and sustainably. It’s no surprise that sales of face masks are dramatically up again. Here, we’ve rounded up some of the best-sellers on Amazon right now, including the scalloped face mask that soared in popularity after it was worn by Meghan Markle. Find the links to buy below.