Sajid Javid has insisted that “all rules would have been followed” if Boris Johnson and his staff attended parties at Number 10 in the run-up to Christmas last year. The health secretary did not deny that the parties took place, but he said he was “not aware” of any and he did not attend them. And he insisted that if any festive gatherings had gone ahead, then “all the rules would have been followed”. The prime minister is under fire after the Daily Mirror reported that he broke social distancing rules by attending a number of parties with Downing Street staff in the run-up to Christmas. Johnson is accused of attending a leaving do for an aide on 27 November last year while the second lockdown was in force.  His staff are then alleged to have held their own festive party in Downing Street on 18 December, which Johnson did not attend. It came just days before Christmas when London was in tier 3 restrictions and people were banned from mixing with anyone outside of their household bubble. In response, Downing Street did not deny the claims, but a spokesman told the Mirror: “Covid rules have been followed at all times.” Asked by LBC whether he believed the prime minister and Downing Street staff had broken the rules, Javid replied: “I didn’t attend, I don’t know who attended these parties, but I don’t even think there were parties that I’m aware of. “But the point is, whether it’s in Number 10 or any government department, all rules would have been followed at all times. “I don’t think there’s anything there.” The health secretary also questioned the accuracy of the report, saying: “Well, first of all, it is the Daily Mirror.” Ferrari hit back: “I’m sure they have their facts straight, secretary of state.” According to the Mirror, around “40 or 50” people were crammed “cheek by jowl” into a medium-sized room in Number 10 for the two events. A source told the newspaper: “It was a Covid nightmare”. Last November the country went into its second national lockdown as covid rates began to soar once again. Everyone was told to stay at home while non-essential shops were closed and pubs and restaurants were open only for takeaway and delivery services. Then in December, London went into tier 2 restrictions which prohibited households from mixing indoors, before even harsher tier 3 measures were introduced. The claims come amid mixed messaging over how people should behave this Christmas now that the omicron variant has reached the UK, with a confirmed 22 cases. Ministers have been keen to stress that people should continue with their Christmas plans as normal, with the prime minister telling a press conference yesterday that people should enjoy their parties and nativity plays. However, scientists have taken a different view. Dr Jenny Harries, chief executive of the UK Health Security Agency, urged people not to socialise if they do not need to in the run-up to Christmas. Asked by LBC whether Johnson or Harries was right, Javid responded: “There’s no need to change our plans. “Follow the guidance that’s already there.”