Our go-to dishes can change from favourite foods to completely unappetising when a heatwave hits. Hearty suddenly equals heavy – and anything that’s going to make us feel any hotter gets crossed off the shopping list. So, what can you actually cook for lunch or dinner when you’d rather chomp down on pure ice? We’re asked tops chefs and restauranteurs to tell us their favourite summer recipes.  Try this green papaya salad – created by Saiphin Moore, founder of Rosa’s Thai Cafe and Lao Café – and forget everything you’ve ever said about salads being boring.  2 tablespoons roasted peanuts1-10 red bird’s eye chillies (depending on how brave you are)5 small (or 2–3 large) garlic cloves1 1⁄2 tablespoons palm sugar2 yard-long beans (or green beans), cut into 2.5cm (1 inch) pieces4 cherry tomatoes, sliced2 tablespoons fresh lime juice2 tablespoons Thai fish sauce (or 2 teaspoons salt)1⁄2 medium green papaya, peeled and shredded1 carrot, shredded2 tablespoons dried shrimp (leave out for a vegetarian alternative) In a small, dry frying pan, toast the peanuts over a medium heat until golden brown. Remove from the pan and set aside. (There’s also a ready-toasted alternative you can find in the supermarkets). Coarsely pound the chillies and garlic together using a pestle and mortar. Add the palm sugar, beans and tomatoes. Lightly pound to combine, then squeeze in the lime juice and fish sauce. Lightly pound again, then add the green papaya and carrot. Pound again and toss to combine. The taste should be sweet and salty in perfect balance, with a sharp, sour and spicy tang. Spoon the salad into a serving bowl and sprinkle over the dried shrimp and toasted peanuts. Think soup is just for winter? Think again. Award-winning chef MarkGreenaway recommends this cold, Gazpacho recipe. It’s best made the day before and can be used as a starter or the main event with lots of bread, as it serves six. 12 tomatoes1 red pepper¼ of a cucumber1/8 of a red onion7g basil7g coriander125ml olive oil20ml sherry vinegarSalt to taste For the basil oil1 bunch of basil leaves (stalks removed)250ml rapeseed oil For the toppingA handful of hazelnuts Roughly chop the tomatoes, red pepper, red onion and cucumber. Place them in a large bowl. Crush everything together Add the basil and coriander. Mix all of the ingredients together Cover with clingfilm and leave in the fridge overnight Blend the mixture and pass it through a fine sieve Add the olive oil and sherry vinegar. Blend the mixture till emulsified. Season to taste Cover and chill in the fridge To make the basil oil Blanch half of the basil leaves in salted boiling water for 30 seconds Refresh in ice water until completely cold Squeeze out all of the excess water Into a blender add the blanched basil, the raw basil and rapeseed oil and blend until smooth.  Pass through a fine sieve and reserve until required.  To make the roasted hazelnuts Preheat the oven to 180C. Place the hazelnuts on a tray/ Roast in the oven for approximately 15 minutes giving them a shake every 5 minutes. Rub off the skins and reserve until required. To serve, pour the gazpacho into bowls and top with a drizzle of the basil oil and the roasted hazelnuts. We crave veggie food when sunshine hits, and Ben Ebbrell, chef and co-founder of the SORTEDfood online food community on YouTube – has delivered with this recipe for two. 100g couscous280g extra firm tofu1 tbsp vegetable oil1 lemon25g butter1 clove garlic1 beef tomato5 spring onions / scallions10 g fresh parsley10 g fresh coriander / cilantro2 tbsp olive oil100 g crème fraîche  Cook the couscous Preheat a large griddle pan or frying pan over a high heat on the stove. Tip the couscous into a large mixing bowl followed by a generous pinch of salt and enough boiling water to cover it. Give it a quick stir before wrapping the bowl with cling film and setting it aside. Get grilling Slice the tofu into 6 thick slices on a chopping board and pour over 1 tbsp of vegetable oil, season them with salt and give everything a good mix by hand to coat. Once the griddle/frying pan is smoking hot, lower in the slices one by one making sure they don’t overlap. Allow them to fry/char for 4-5 minutes on one side before flipping them and repeating on the next. Whilst the tofu is charing, zest the lemon and peel, then grate the garlic on to a large plate followed by the butter broken into cubes. Season the zest, garlic and butter with a generous grind of black pepper and a little more salt. Lay the charred tofu slices into the lemon zest and butter and cover the plate with tin foil. Quickly deglaze the hot pan with a splash of boiling water and tip the it into the bowl with the cous cous.  Make the tabbouleh Give the chopping board and knife a quick wash and finely chop 10g (0.4oz) each of coriander and parsley and cut 5 spring onions into thin rounds. Cut the beef tomato into quarters and remove its seeds, chop the remaining petals into a 1/2 cm dice. Keep the seeds and use them for soups, stocks and sauces! The couscous should have now absorbed all the water it was cooked in, chuck the herbs, 3/4 of the spring onions and all the diced tomato into the bowl. Squeeze in the juice of the lemon that was zested earlier and pour in 2 tbsp of olive oil. Give everything a good mix. Divide the tabbouleh between two serving plates. Remove the tin foil from the plate the tofu was resting on and toss it quickly in any juices that have amassed. Cookbook author and co-founder of Higgidy, Camilla Stephens, recommends a smoked chicken and parsley pesto quiche, which is delicious warm from the oven, but can also be taken to a posh picnic where it will serve six. You’ll need a 23cm loose-bottomed square fluted tart tin that’s 3cm deep For the shortcrust pastry (makes 350g)200g plain flourA generous pinch of salt100g butter, well chilled and cut into small cubes30g Parmesan cheese, grated (optional)1 medium egg yolk, beatenAbout 3 tbsp ice-cold water For the filling2 tbsp olive oil1 onion, finely chopped4 spring onions, finely sliced (white and green parts)200g skinless cooked smoked chicken breast, torn into pieces1 small bunch of fresh flat-leaf parsley, leaves finely chopped1 small bunch of fresh chives, snippedGrated zest of 1 lemon250ml double cream3 medium eggs and 1 egg yolk, lightly whisked2 tbsp roughly chopped hazelnutsSalt and freshly ground black pepperFresh rocket leaves, to serve Making the shortcrust pastry:How it’s done – by hand How it’s done – in a food processor For a burger with a twist, try this lamb and mint delight from Yes Peas – a website dedicate to celebrating British garden peas (yes, really).  For the patties1 medium red onion1 small bunch of parsley & mint100g frozen peas, defrosted500g lamb shoulder, finely minced2 tsp ground cinnamon1 ½ tsp ground allspice1 tsp cumin seedssea salt flakes & freshly ground black pepperoil, to grease For the tabbouleh250g cooked bulgur wheat100g frozen peas, defrosteda good handful of flat-leaf parsley & mint, chopped2 vine tomatoes, deseeded and diced4 spring onions, finely sliced1 cucumber, choppedzest and juice of 1 lemon1 garlic clove, crushed3 tbsp olive oil For the rose yoghurt4 tbsp yoghurttsp harissa paste Finely chop the parsley, mint and red onion. Mix in the lamb, peas, spices and salt until thoroughly combined. Shape into 4 patties, cover and chill for at least an hour. Mix the bulgur wheat with the chopped herbs in a large bowl and add the tomato, spring onion, cucumber and peas along with the lemon zest and juice, garlic and olive oil. Mix thoroughly and season with salt and pepper. To make the yoghurt, mix the harissa paste into the yoghurt and leave to one side. Grill the patties until golden brown on both sides. Serve immediately with the harissa yoghurt and tabbouleh.