Lisa Kudrow might be one of the most recognisable people in the world, but even she was left starstuck on the set of the Friends reunion.  The Phoebe Buffay actor has revealed she was very excited when Justin Bieber made a guest appearance on the upcoming TV special.  The reunion will see the main cast joined by some celebrity Friends fans, including Justin, Lady Gaga, David Beckham, Malala Yousafzai and Cindy Crawford. Speaking to the New York Post, Lisa said of the Baby singer: “I was like, ‘Wait, that’s Justin Bieber, right? Would he be here? Is he here? He’s really here – that’s Justin Bieber!’  “That was kind of exciting. I’m throwing in a ‘kind of’ so that I seem a little cooler. It was exciting. I don’t get excited about meeting people – but Justin Bieber, he’s exciting.” As well as celebrity guests, the reunion will see the main cast joined by some supporting actors from the series, including James Michael Tyler and Maggie Wheeler – better known as Gunther and Janice. Joining them will be Elliott Gould and Christina Pickles (who played Monica and Ross’ parents, Jack and Judy Geller), Reese Witherspoon (who co-starred as Rachel’s sister in two episodes of the sitcom) and Tom Selleck (who played Monica’s love interest, Richard). The reunion marks the first time since the show wrapped in 2004 that all six of the main cast have been in the same room together in front of the cameras.  Lisa said that she felt “every emotion” while filming the episode.  “It was a lot of laughing and then real blubbering — which, I don’t know if that will be in there, but the puffy eyes are in there, so that’s good. It was an emotionally exhausting and great few days,” she told the New York Post.  Earlier this week, a trailer for the episode debuted, which promised many tears and plenty of laughter as Lisa, Jennifer Aniston, Courteney Cox, Matthew Perry, Matt LeBlanc and David Schwimmer reminisce about the iconic sitcom that propelled them to global fame.  It also confirmed James Corden as the host of the reunion.  Friends: The Reunion will air in the UK on Thursday 27 May at 8pm on Sky One, and will be available to stream on NOW from the same time.  HuffPost may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page. Prices and availability subject to change.