Another coronavirus strain has been named to a “variant of concern” after clusters of infections were found in multiple parts of England. There were originally four variants of concern in the UK – the so-called Kent, South Africa, Brazil and Bristol variants. But a newer strain from India is on the rise and has been named a variant of concern by Public Health England (PHE). The change comes after cases more than doubled in the space of a week. There are thought to have been at least 48 clusters of cases linked to this particular variant, largely due to travel, with cases reported in schools, care homes and places of worship in the North West (predominantly Bolton) and London. There are a few variants that originated in India doing the rounds, but one is causing more worry than others. The strain – B1617.2 – is one of three related variants that have been detected in the UK. The others are B1617.1 and B1617.3.  All three were designated as variants under investigation, however PHE has confirmed B1617.2 is now a variant of concern on May 7. Initial data suggested there were 202 cases of the B1617.2 variant, 193 confirmed cases of the B1617.1 variant, with 61 more cases confirmed since then, and five cases of the B1617.3 variant. On May 7, PHE confirmed cases of B1617.2 had shot up to 520 in the space of a week. Almost half the cases were related to travel or contact with a traveller. According to internal PHE documents, dated May 5 and seen by The Guardian, the ongoing risk to public health from the variant subtype B1617.2 is “high”. The most dominant variant in the UK is still the B117 variant (also known as the Kent variant). The World Health Organisation (WHO) is also monitoring the India variant, which was first discovered in October 2020. It is currently designated a ‘variant under investigation’ by the global health body.  There are around one to two mutations of SARS-CoV-2 per month, which means thousands of mutations have developed since the virus first emerged. “Most of these mutations have no effect on the behaviour of the virus but occasionally a mutation occurs that alters how quickly the virus spreads, how infectious it might be or even the severity of the disease it causes,” says Professor Lawrence Young, a virologist and expert in molecular oncology from Warwick Medical School. “It is then the virus becomes a variant of concern.” Evidence suggests this variant is at least as transmissible as B.1.1.7 (the Kent variant). The other characteristics of this variant are still being investigated. Dr Deepti Gurdasani, a clinical epidemiologist and senior lecturer at Queen Mary University of London, told The Guardian “at the current doubling rate, [B1617.2] could easily become dominant in London by the end of May or early June”. Seven cases of the B1617.2 variant have been detected in Northern Ireland. The country’s chief medical officer Dr Michael McBride said the news was “not entirely unexpected” and that plans were in place “for such an eventuality”. There is no evidence so far that the B1617.2 variant can sidestep vaccine immunity and health experts have said they “haven’t seen any hint” of a current Covid variant that can fully evade the effectiveness of vaccines, which is promising. There is also insufficient evidence to indicate that any of the variants recently detected in India cause more severe disease. PHE said it is carrying out laboratory testing, in collaboration with academic and international partners, to better understand the impact of the mutations on the behaviour of the virus. Surge and community testing will now be deployed where there is evidence of community transmission, PHE said. This is in addition to work that is already underway to trace and test all contacts of cases. Everyone in the affected areas will be asked to get a test, even if they don’t have symptoms. If someone tests positive, they must isolate to stop the spread. In the meantime, the public is being urged to work from home where possible, continue following the guidance on mixing with others, take up the offer of free lateral flow testing, and to get vaccinated when called to do so.  Dr Susan Hopkins, Covid-19 strategic response director at PHE, said: “The way to limit the spread of all variants is the same and although we are all enjoying slightly more freedom, the virus is still with us. “Keep your distance, wash your hands regularly and thoroughly, cover your nose and mouth when inside and keep buildings well ventilated and meet people from other households outside.” She urged people to get tested if they’re asked to get one or if you’ve been in contact with anyone who tests positive for the virus.  The current evidence suggests that the other variants detected in India are not variants of concern, but this will be kept under constant review.