Marriage is full of highs, lows and a whole bunch of ordinary moments in between. And somehow, the spouses of Twitter continue to find humor in the minutiae of married life – and sum it up perfectly in no more than 280 characters. Every other week, we round up the funniest marriage tweets of the previous 14 days. Read on for 32 new, relatable ones that will have you laughing in agreement. My husband just voluntarily took out the trash and I think this might be how every harlequin romance story begins We just reached the phase of marriage where I FaceTimed my husband from a work trip to show him “this super cute neighborhood” I was driving through. SPOUSE 1: *wakes up*SPOUSE 2: [already wide awake] good morning, here is a list of all the things you did in your sleep last night son said he was bored so hubby made a game of vacuuming as much dog hair as he could with the cordless vac and he’s almost done the whole house…im married to a parenting wizard Husband: you’re lateMe: would you believe me if I said it’s because I made a healthy breakfast and then went for a jogHusband: NoMe: Fine, my pop-tart got stuck in the toaster As soon as my wife finishes helping me cook, I’m going to surprise her with dinner. If by married you mean share debt and a roof, then yes I am married. my wife and i are sleeping in a full size bed at my grandparents house. it's great to know what sleeping in a double coffin is like. Wife: Why is the rum out?Me: [gesturing to kids] I told you you would get sick if you ate that!!~Things I say to my husband and my dog I'll say it again louder, for those in the back*!*My husband who didn't listen the first time Husband: Hey babe, wanna have sex?Me: Will there be snacks? Last night my wife was watching Marie Kondo, this morning I woke up on the curb. I’m not yelling, it’s just that the louder my voice is, the better my husband seems to understand what I’m saying. No, I have a system…~Me when my wife notices I’ve screwed something up Husband: *driving*Me: *breathing judgmentally*