Rylan Clark has revealed his attempts of online dating have hit somewhat of a stumbling block.  The It Takes Two presenter discovered he had been blocked from Tinder after signing up to the dating app in the wake of his split from husband Dan Neal.  Rylan shared a screenshot of his blocked profile with his Instagram followers on Wednesday.  It carried a message that read: “Your Tinder account has been banned for activity that violates our Terms of Use.” The former X Factor contestant seemed to take the matter in good humour, however, posting a laughing emoji at the idea Tinder thought someone had been using him as a “catfish”.  HuffPost UK has contacted Tinder to ask if it will be reinstating Rylan’s profile and is awaiting a response. Rylan recently took time out of the spotlight, during which time addressed the breakdown of his marriage. In a statement to The Sun, Rylan claimed that he’d made “a number of mistakes” that led to himself and Dan splitting up.   He said: “Following reports about Dan and I spending time apart, I feel I have to speak out – as the way it is being reported is unfair. “I have made a number of mistakes which I deeply regret and have inevitably led to the breakdown of our marriage.” He added: “I have taken time away from work as I am not in a good place at the moment and am seeking help. “I am trying to take each day at a time and would like to thank you to everyone for their support and for respecting our privacy at this time.” There were later rumours that Rylan and Dan are trying to give their relationship another chance, but they were then followed by reports the couple had split once again.  Neither party has commented on the reports officially, but Rylan did also make a joke about downloading dating app Grindr during a recent appearance at the Attitude Awards.  Earlier this week, Rylan set the record straight on claims﻿ his BBC Radio 2 bosses were concerned for his welfare after he returned to work following his break.  The Sun claimed it was suggested he took a year off work to focus on himself after appearing to have a breakdown while hosting his show.  Responding on Twitter, Rylan said: “Couple of news stories today. Be assured, I’m good. I wasn’t but I am now x.” A BBC spokesperson also added: “Following some time away from his show, we’re delighted Rylan is back on air.”