We’re finally in the autumn season which means it’s the perfect time to try out some new food and recipes. And when we think of pumpkins, we usually associate them with Halloween.  Environmental charity Hubbub found that around 12.8 million pumpkins were set to be carved out but not eaten, as one in seven people who celebrate Halloween said they don’t even think of pumpkins as food. Only 42% (two in five) realised you can eat a carving pumpkin from the supermarket.  In 2015, only 31% of pumpkins were actually eaten, rising to 46% in 2019 and 59% in 2020. However, more people are celebrating Halloween than ever before (up to 56% in 2020 from 50% in 2019), and those households which celebrate tend to carve an average of just over two pumpkins each.  There’s so much you can do with pumpkins outside of Halloween and we’ve got three recipes to highlight how versatile they are. Soups were made for autumn time, especially this creamy pumpkin soup recipe created by the environmental charity Hubbub. This recipe is all pumpkin with some ginger and honey to add to the flavour.  1. Preheat the oven to 200ºC. Lay foil on an oven safe dish and spread thepumpkin seeds, add a splash of olive oil, salt, and pepper to taste. Put inoven to toast for 40 minutes.2. Melt the butter in a large saucepan. Add the onions and pumpkin andcook on medium heat for 3-4 minutes until the vegetables soften but donot brown.3. Add the honey, ginger, and vegetable stock and bring to the boil.Simmer for 15-20 minutes until the pumpkin is soft.4. Stir in most of the single cream and place in a food processor. Blenduntil smooth. Season to taste with black pepper.5. Serve garnished with a swirl of the remaining single cream, a sprinkle ofcoriander if desired, and the toasted pumpkin seeds. Who said chips have to be potato-based? These loaded pumpkin fries from the Primula cheese team will make you forget about your favorite junk food fries. Add in some cheese and jalapenos so you can add to the experience.  Another yummy recipe from the Primula team is this Roasted Sourdough Pumpkin recipe. Sourdough took off during the first lockdown and it might be time to go back to it with a twist. This roasted pumpkins sourdough recipe will be your guilty pleasure this autumn. Ingredients