Facebook and its apps, including Instagram and WhatsApp, went down on Monday, so naturally everyone fled to Twitter.  While the company has still not shared the cause of the outages, people are flexing their comedic muscles by tweeting jokes about the whole situation nonetheless. We’ve rounded up a selection of some of the funniest tweets about the social media outages. Remember when they were like "in two weeks we can all go back to work" in March 2020. What if it's like that with Instagram? lot of top tier vaccine scientists going to have a tough time with their independent research now that facebook is down with instagram down, influencers are going to have to go door to door making teenage girls feel like shit about themselves According to Facebook, the only way to fix the FB outage is to cover its servers in horse paste. Twitter right now as WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook crash #instagramdown pic.twitter.com/zSHya9uxC0 Facebook and Instagram are down but it's like, who isn't? While FB and IG are down, I am going to amuse myself reading Amazon reviews. Like the one titled "I am finally at one with my underwear." Me leaving Instagram to check on Twitter if it’s down #instagramdown pic.twitter.com/Uv1f0S0v92 Goodbye to all the friends I have never bothered to get the phone number of because we communicate exclusively over insta and messenger God help us if there’s a photogenic sunset tonight. Me after switching between my wifi and data only to realise that instagram and facebook are down #instagramdown  pic.twitter.com/DaoQijRAXM Facebook is down. Where am I supposed to get medical advice? An actual doctor? They took down Finsta Went to check Instagram and it was down and it felt like the last scene in Good Will Hunting pic.twitter.com/bVZKsauhuR Facebook’s down so I’m calling my elderly relatives and asking them their thoughts on the vaccine “Remember when Instagram & Facebook existed?” - history books / all of us, one hour after they went down Everybody coming to Twitter to check that what happened to WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook 😭😭#WhatsApp #instagramdown #facebookdown pic.twitter.com/SLfeukCKp8 if you can bring down whatsapp and insta you can also bring down microsoft teams Everyone Agrees Downtime Is Important. But That's Not What Happened When I Finally Tried To Take A Day Offby facebook FACEBOOK IS DOWN NOW HOW AM I SUPPOSED TO KNOW WHAT AUNT CAROL IS MAKING FOR DINNER Me: Facebook is down.Wife: I could tell even without checking my phone.Me: How?Wife: People are actually getting work done. Social media in its flop era Help I can’t stop opening the Facebook app. I am dumber than a hamster. pic.twitter.com/CD8GraFuzL Mark Zuckerberg has concluded his research into rating every woman on Earth and has now shut down Facebook.  Thank you all for your cooperation. WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook eliminated. Only Twitter made it to the second game. pic.twitter.com/YfPETCPsHj okay well I’ve gone down on many people before too and have NEVER trended on twitter, so what’s up with that, instagram and facebook Mark trying to fix Whatsapp, Instagram and Facebook at the same time. pic.twitter.com/n0WZSwLYon Instagram and Facebook going down: Haha serves ‘em right.Twitter glitching too: [Immediately turns on CNN to see if it’s a cyberattack.] instagram is down. can I come over and look at your food The best part of WhatsApp Instagram and Facebook going down is Twitter trolling them. LMAO 😭 #facebookdown pic.twitter.com/drwbo208RZ